>> Kyle Simpson: We talked about PTC as
a form to modify an existing recursive
algorithm and
take advantage of the PTC optimization, or
whatever you wanna call it, that behavior
that would be built into the browser.
And we said, well,
it's kind of an unfortunate reality
that not all the browsers have it yet.
So, there's a different way of
approaching our algorithm when it's
difficult to arrange it in the PTC form
directly, the way we were talking about.
And this form is called CPS, which
stands for continuation-passing style.
So, sometimes your algorithm will
be such that, like for example,
if you need to make two recursive calls,
like a binary descent, well,
two recursive calls that need
to happen in the same function,
there's no way to have both
of them be at the end.
So, it kind of leaves you in
this difficult position where
you can't refactor to the PTC form.
And in those cases,
sometimes CPS, continuation-passing style,
can be an approach to that.
We're not gonna dig a lot into this, but
I just wanna briefly show you how
CPS could work for our example.
What I'm doing here with
the sumRecur function,
I'm still returning that
function on line 4.
And this is,
because this is definitely going to have
a signature that's inconvenient now.
So, we need to go back to hiding it.
But my inner recursive function,
you'll notice that my first
position is an array, and
that array is gonna get shortened down.
So, what I immediately do is say,
I'm gonna put all of my numbers onto my
memory stack, but you'll notice that
the second argument is labeled cont,
which stands for continuation.
That's always gonna be a function,
and I started out there on line 5 as,
there's a special term for a function that
returns whatever value is passed to it.
That's just I was saving space on
the slides to do it in the arrow form, but
that's the identity function,
that's a special term for a function that
just returns whatever you give to it.
So, that's the initial value for
this continuation that I pass in.
Now, when I call my base
condition on line 10,
if I am in the base condition you'll
notice I don't just return the sum
I return the result of calling
the continuation function with that sum.
So, if I was in the very first call,
that is I passed in only one number,
then that would be calling the identity
function with whatever I passed in, and
just passing back the value directly.
But if I was deeper into
my stack of recursion,
then I would just be passing sum into
some function that had been passed to me,
that had been passed to me,
that had been passed.
So, what does that
non-base case look like?
You notice again,
instead of calling sum plus recur,
I call recur with my list of nums,
that's my running array list if you will,
but my last position there is a function.
It's another continuation,
a continuation that takes a v and
calls whatever the current continuation
is with that plus the sum.
So, I know it can be really hard to
like unwind with all that's happening.
But just to give you sort of a visual
instinct of what's occurring,
we're essentially wrapping up
the stuff that would happen
after the recursive call in a function and
passing that along.
So, in the previous one when we did PTC,
we calculated the partial sum and
passed it along.
Here we're actually like calculating
the next set of steps to do and
passing that along.
We're wrapping it up in a function and
passing it along.
So, we pass that function along, and
then we pass another function along and
another function along.
And at the very end, whenever we're
done with the base condition and
we call line 10,
we're gonna fire off that function, and
it's gonna call all the functions
in that super nested call step.
And all of them are in PTC form,
cuz as you see they're on line 11,
they've all been positioned as PTC.
So, as long as PTC is in effect,
even if that ends up
resulting in a million function
calls all happening all at once.
There won't be any stack growth there.
We'll just make all of those calls
in fixed memory, and then be done.
So, the purpose again of the CPS is if I
have some stuff that I need to do after
my recursive call, like, for example,
make another recursive call, or whatever.
I can take that code and instead of
doing it later wrap it up in a closure,
wrap it up in a continuation, and
pass it along and do that work later.
Defer that work until later and
later, and later.
And then, at the very end,
do all of those partial sets of work.
So, that's a strategy for
doing more complex things, and
by the way,
in the case where we talked about.
You obviously don't need to do it when
you're summing up a list of numbers,
this would be a much harder way.
But, if we were talking, for example,
about that traversing a binary list thing,
you could actually have
a continuation of a continuation.
You end up doing inside on line 12 you
would be creating another continuation for
the second part in passing it along.
It gets kind of hairy, but you can diagram
all this out and say, well, that's
a function that calls that, that calls
that, and then just at the very end you
know the base case just sort of fires off
all those calls and does all that work.
So, CPS is a form,
it's definitely more advanced technique.
It takes a lot of practice, but
it's a form that you can express
even more advanced versions of
recursion still in PTC form.
By the way, some, not in JavaScript,
but in some systems,
there are either pre-processors, or the
compiler itself is able to take a piece
of code that is written in this, that is
written in a way that is minimal to this.
And automatically rewrite that code for
you.
I'm optimistic that maybe eventually we
get a tool where somebody can take your
recursive function and rewrite it into
this PTC form much like what Bable does
to transform your code,
I'm optimistic that at some point
it might require you to be using something
like typescript, or I don't know.
But it'd be really nice if somebody
could make one of those tools for
JavaScript the way they exist
in some other languages,
that way we don't have to
write all this ugliness.
We could just give it
our recursive function,
and it would figure out how to wrap
it all up in those continuations.
Any questions about CPS?
>> Kyle Simpson: Now, what about this case
where we're stuck in the future where
[LAUGH] we don't get PTC,
or we don't have PTC, or
we need to run it in browser
that doesn't yet support PTC.
Are we just lost?
Is there no way to deal with some
kind of recurs of algorithms.